[Music]
how to look after your jeans
I'm Michael Williams founder of a
continuous lean high in this film I'm
going to show you how to best take care
of your denim step 1
pre wash or raw first off it's important
to distinguish between pre-washed jeans
and raw denim pre-washed jeans already
look and feel worn in when you buy them
they'll have some whiskering at the lab
and fading on the thigh and knee
they don't need extra special treatment
just wash them infrequently inside out
on a cold cycle and drip dry this film
focuses on raw denim which is altogether
different raw denim is dark and uniform
with no fade or wash it feels really
stiff at first and is not comfortable to
wear but be patient it'll soon soften up
salvaged denim indicates small batch
production and is a sign of quality and
chain stitching around the hem is an
authentic denim detail a tip be careful
of dye transfer new jeans can bleed
indigo and leave their blue mark on
white t-shirts underwear canvas sneakers
and your mom's white couch another tip
has jeans aged the zipper might not stay
up anymore
if this happens a fix a keyring loop
like so and hook it over the waistband
button step 2 wear them we all launder
our clothes right but not raw denim
washing it breaks down the fibers and
removes dye wait as long as possible
before the first wash at least 6 months
if you can stand it until then spot
clean light stains with a small amount
of gentle detergent and reduce odor by
airing them outside and giving them an
occasional spritz with a 90 bacterial
spray step 3
wash them at some point you're gonna
have to launder them or risk social
exclusion ideally you should hand wash
them fill a bowl or bath with tepid
water add a couple of gloves of
detergent
then let the jeans soak whatever you do
don't scrub them or wring them out or
you'll interrupt the natural fade leave
them for 30 minutes go about your
business then rinse with fresh water
step 4 dry them move away from the
tumble dryer it'll shorten raw denims
lifespan considerably instead hang to
dry lay a towel down to catch any
dripping dye then turn the jeans the
right way straighten them out and hang
them on a rack or over the shower rail
in your bathroom step 5
know when to retire them at any one time
you'll probably have several pairs of
jeans and rotation at varying stages of
wear and tear once I get as beaten up as
this they're fit for nothing but DIY or
the trash well-worn pairs like these are
your weekend casual jeans to wear with
sneakers and the t-shirt next you have
your everyday jeans which have only been
washed a couple of times these will be
the ones you wear most often and we'll
go with boots can't shoes and sneakers
your newest pair will be your Friday
night jeans these are smart enough to go
with tailoring and dress shoes all I
need now is to find a date
[Music]